In the last lecture we already got pretty far,
we're starting to store our file, now I want to finish this up and then send a request.
So we're uploading this, now for this
upload,
we not only pass this configuration but as a third argument to the upload function, instead we pass
a function which will be executed once it's done, here
we either get an error or a file,
well we actually get both arguments but error is either null or the error or file is the file or
null in the case of an error.
So in here, I then check if we don't have an error, this is the better case for us because there we successfully
saved everything. There
I want to return a response with the link to the file which would allow us to view the file because
that is what I want to store in the database thereafter,
we could also reach out to the database from within here but I want to do it in two separate steps.
So what I do is in this case, I will use response status 201 because we created a file and then return
a json object or a
json response where we pass some data, where I want to pass the image url and that is now url
we have to manually construct, keeping a certain pattern firebase uses for creating images
it would store on the storage with its own SDK. This url has a couple of different parts, the
first part is a string which targets https//firebasestorage.
googleapis, one word dot com /v0/b, probably for bucket
but then we'll append something and I'm deliberately writing it like this over multiple lines and slowly
step by step.
The next part we add is the bucket name,
now keep in mind bucket is a constant we created and we can access name to get the name of the bucket,
then we have to append a string with /o/,
we append something else. We use encode uri component which is a nodejs function we can use to encode the
file.name,
now just remember, file is one of the arguments we receive here if we don't have an error,
so that's the file name.
And then we append something else, another string with a query parameter which should be alt equals media
to indicate that it's a media file and then token equals and that should now be your uuid, so your
unique ID and this will generate a link
we can use to directly access the data on this bucket or this file to be precise, this image without
having general access rights which is a good thing of course
and that's it.
Now of course this if check here where we see if we have an error could also fail,
so I also will set up an else case so that we have an error.
In this case, I want to log the error to see what's wrong and then return response status 500
json and pass an object where we have the error and forward the error message to the client.
Now I will remove this response send thing here at the end,
we don't need that anymore and we don't need return statements in front of our response statements
because there is no code coming after that
that could be executed
and that should be the code we need to store a file.
Now we of course need to test this and for this, we want to send a request.
So back in the places.js file in the actions folder, here we send a request to store data on the database,
now that's nice but I'll temporarily disable this and comment this out, instead
I want to send a request to our own firebase cloud function to store a file which is more important
to me right now.
For this, we first of all need to deploy the firebase functions, I'll cd out of the functions directory
back into the root project directory
and then you can run firebase deploy with the firebase tools installed which we did to upload this
firebase cloud function to your firebase service, to your firebase project.
Once it's done it will give us a url we can send the request to to trigger the function and then have
the moment of truth and see if it works.
So let's wait for this deployment to finish
and now once it's done, you can expand this and get that function
url here in the terminal where you ran firebase deploy,
that is where you need to send the request to.
So let's do this here, let's call fetch and enter this as a url,
this is still should be a post request
so let's set the method to post here
and we want to add a body here
too, there I will now use json stringify again to turn a javascript object into a string object and
there I want to pass on the image.
Now keep in mind, image as we receive it here is in the end sent from our shared or share place screen,
there at the bottom where we dispatch this action,
we pass on image and image here is coming from the image place added handler from the state controls
image value and image value is set from the image picker in the end,
here we set the value to image,
so the image is coming from the pick image component and there, our image object has an uri and the
base64 property.
It's the base64 property
I am interested in because that is what I want to send to the backend so that it there gets extracted, stored
as a file and so on.
So now that we know this, what I want to do is I want to send a javascript object where I provide an
image property because that is what we try to extract in our cloud function,
remember, we're doing this in the cloud function here,
body image.
So this is what we extract there,
therefore here I will send an image, I'll access the image but I'm only sending the base64 part.
Now this sends the request,
now of course we want to see if it's successful,
so I will first of all add catch to log any errors we might get to see what went wrong
but then I also will have a then block where I get the response and I call response.json to
extract the json portion and chain another then block to then really get the parsed response here and
there,
I now also want to log the parsed response. And with all that set up, let's see if it works, let's go
back to our application and
let's reload it
since we change the code
and let's quickly try to create and share a new file.
Make sure that your debugging tools are attached so that we can see if that all works and what we
get back, if we get an error
and so on, let me pick an image and a place here, enter some cool name and click share the place and
after clicking this, I clear the console in advance,
it should take a little while but after a while, you should see a success message
and this request simply takes a while because we're uploading the image which is not super small and the network
speed of the simulator here is not super high.
So this can take a little while but after that, you should get this response here which holds a link
to the image,
let's copy that and paste it into a new tab and there I get an error,
the problem has to be somewhere in the cloud function,
the firebase function we wrote and the error is here in the metadata area.
There you actually need to nest another metadata property, yeah that's confusing but you need to do
that
and there you should add this set up which will be important for this download link that gets generated.
So there paste it into this inner metadata property in the outer metadata one, yeah that is confusing
and now let's try this again.
Now we change the cloud function so first of all, we need to run firebase deploy again to upload our
new code,
make sure to save the file before doing that and now this will take a while for which we have to wait
but the good thing is we can whilst it takes some time, that it succeeds,
so we'll certainly have to do something about the waiting time
but this works in theory.
Now I'll be back once this redeployed and once we can try this again.
So redeployment finished,
the good thing is the url will still be the same so you don't need to touch your react native code,
you don't even need to reload the app here, you can just share the place again so that's what I'm doing, sharing
the place again,
waiting for this to resolve and give me a response and once the response is there,
let's now try this image url so again let's copy the full link here.
Go into the tab from before and enter there and
there you should see your beautiful image.
You can also confirm this if you visit firebase and click on storage there and there, you should
see places, the subfolder with two images because I tried two uploads and there you can also see a
preview.
Now I'm going to delete both by marking them and clicking delete because right now, I'm not really doing
anything useful with response
but now that we know that the response is valid, we can start doing this.
So we're sending a request in the next video,
let's use the response,
let's use the image url to revisit how we store the rest of the data on firebase.